.TH ALIAS\-SOLVER 1 "March 2026" "alias-solver 1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
alias\-solver \- convert relative imports to alias\-based imports and back

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alias\-solver
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B alias\-solver
automatically converts relative imports (../../foo) to alias\-based imports (@/foo)
in JavaScript and TypeScript projects. It can also revert alias imports back to
relative paths.

The tool auto\-detects alias configuration from \fBtsconfig.json\fR,
\fBvite.config.ts\fR, or \fBwebpack.config.js\fR. If no configuration is found,
it scans the source directory (src/, app/, or lib/) and generates aliases
automatically based on the folder structure, writing them to tsconfig.json.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Preview changes without modifying any files. Shows what would be converted
with colorized before/after output.

.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-revert
Revert alias imports back to relative paths. Converts \fB@components/Button\fR
back to \fB../../components/Button\fR based on the file's location.

.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-path " " \fIPATH\fR
Target a specific file or directory instead of scanning the entire project.
When targeting a directory, only files directly inside it are processed (not
subdirectories). Use \fB\-R\fR to include subdirectories.

.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-recursive
When used with \fB\-\-path\fR on a directory, process files in all subdirectories
recursively. Without this flag, only files directly in the target directory are
processed. Has no effect when \fB\-\-path\fR points to a file or is not specified
(whole project scans are always recursive).

.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help message and exit.

.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Display version number and exit.

.SH AUTO\-GENERATION
When no alias configuration is found, the tool will:

1. Scan top\-level directories in \fBsrc/\fR (or \fBapp/\fR, \fBlib/\fR)
.br
2. Generate an alias for each folder (e.g. \fB@components/*\fR \-> \fBsrc/components/*\fR)
.br
3. Add a catch\-all \fB@/*\fR \-> \fBsrc/*\fR alias
.br
4. Write the aliases to \fBtsconfig.json\fR
.br
5. Proceed with the import conversion

Folder names that conflict with npm scopes (e.g. \fBtypes\fR) are skipped as
dedicated aliases and handled by the catch\-all \fB@/*\fR instead.

.SH CONFIGURATION
Alias configurations are detected in this priority order:

.TP
.B 1. tsconfig.json
Reads \fBcompilerOptions.paths\fR and \fBcompilerOptions.baseUrl\fR.
Supports \fBextends\fR inheritance and JSONC comments.

.TP
.B 2. vite.config.ts / vite.config.js
Reads \fBresolve.alias\fR (object and array forms).

.TP
.B 3. webpack.config.js / webpack.config.ts
Reads \fBresolve.alias\fR.

.TP
.B 4. Auto\-generation
Falls back to scanning source directories if none of the above are found.

.SH SUPPORTED IMPORT TYPES
.TP
.B Static imports
import { foo } from '../../bar'
.TP
.B Side\-effect imports
import '../../styles.css'
.TP
.B Dynamic imports
const mod = import('../../bar')
.TP
.B Require calls
const foo = require('../../bar')
.TP
.B Re\-exports
export { foo } from '../../bar'

.SH EXAMPLES
Convert all relative imports to aliases:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver
.RE

Preview changes without modifying files:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-dry\-run
.RE

Revert all alias imports to relative paths:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-revert
.RE

Convert only direct files in src/hooks:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-path src/hooks
.RE

Convert all files in src/components and its subdirectories:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-path src/components \-\-recursive
.RE

Revert only direct files in src/hooks:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-revert \-\-path src/hooks
.RE

Revert all files in src/components and subdirectories:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-revert \-\-path src/components \-\-recursive
.RE

Preview a scoped revert without modifying anything:
.PP
.RS
.B alias\-solver \-\-revert \-\-dry\-run \-\-path src/components \-R
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success (changes applied or nothing to do).
.TP
.B 1
Error (no config found and no source directory, or write failure).

.SH FILES
.TP
.B tsconfig.json
Read for alias paths. Written to when auto\-generating aliases.
.TP
.B vite.config.ts / vite.config.js
Read for resolve.alias configuration.
.TP
.B webpack.config.js / webpack.config.ts
Read for resolve.alias configuration.
.TP
.B .gitignore
Respected when scanning for source files.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/SeyZiiZ/alias\-solver/issues

.SH AUTHOR
SeyZiiZ

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tsc (1),
.BR node (1)
